Wrote docs for unhappy paths (#12526)
RasaHQ/rasa: docs/docs/llms/unhappy-paths.mdx

<RasaDiscoveryBanner/>

## Flows with Unhappy Paths

A flow captures a specific business function as a directed graph.
These graphs can be purely linear, or branch heavily, or have cycles in certain sections.
To limit complexity for flow creators, we want them to be able to focus on the direct
or "happy path" where the user sticks to their original goal and where these goals are
attained step by step. Instead of having to model flow switches, cancellations, or
slot corrections explicitly, rasa handles these things in a uniform manner across flows,

> greatly reducing the modeling complexity.

Author: done outside github bc there was still a "sticks" too much in the suggestion

## Digressions

Digressions happen when the user is currently involved in one flow, say transferring
money to a friend, and they need access some information, such as their current balance,
again before continuing with the flow.

```
User: I want to send some money to Joe
Bot: How much do you want to send to Joe?
User: Ah wait, how much money do I have, did my paycheck already arrive?
Bot: You currently have 4021.20$ in your account.
Bot: Let's continue with sending money to Joe.
Bot: How much money do you want to send to Joe then?
...
```

In the above conversation you can see that
* The transferring money flow was interrupted by the checking balance flow and the needed information was provided
* The bot commented on returning to the original flow
* The bot restated the current question of the original flow

This represents the default behavior in flows. You can adjust the behavior by altering
the default flow called `pattern_continue_interruped` which is specified and provided
by default as

> ```yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml title="domain.yml"
```

```
User: I want to send some money to Joe
Bot: How much money do you want to send?
User: 50$
Bot: Do you want to send 50$ to Joe? (Yes/No)
User: Oh wait!! I meant to say to John, not to Joe!
Bot: Do you want to update the recipient to John? (Yes/No)
User: Yes!
Bot: Updated recipient to John
Bot: Do you want to send 50$ to John? (Yes/No)
...
```

In the above conversation you can see that
* The bot recognized that the user wanted to correct a slot that was set earlier and asked the user for confirmation of the change
* The bot informed the user about the successful change of the user

What you cannot see from this conversation is that the flow graph was also retraced in
the background starting from the altered recipient question to make sure the updated
information is still in line with any logical checks along the flow graph. If the update
had resulted in going down a different path we would see the questions and utterances
of this alternate path being used.

the above represents the default behavior in flows. You can adjust the behavior by altering
the default flow called `pattern_correction` which is specified and provided
by default as:

> ```yaml

Author: see above

          title: No, please keep the previous information
      metadata:
        rephrase: True
  utter_corrected_previous_input:
    - text: "Ok, I corrected the previous input."
      metadata:
        rephrase: True
  utter_not_corrected_previous_input:
    - text: "Ok, I did not correct the previous input."
      metadata:
        rephrase: True
slots:
  confirm_correction:
    type: text
    mappings:
      - intent: affirm
        type: from_intent
        value: "True"
        conditions:
          - active_loop: question_confirm_correction
      - intent: deny
        type: from_intent
        value: "False"
        conditions:
          - active_loop: question_confirm_correction

flows:
  pattern_correction:
    description: A meta flow that should be started to correct a previous user input.

    steps:
      - id: "0"
        question: confirm_correction
        next:
          - if: confirm_correction
            then: "1"
          - else: "2"
      - id: "1"
        action: utter_corrected_previous_input
      - id: "2"
        set_slots:
          - rasa_corrected_slots: None
        next: "3"
      - id: "3"
        action: utter_not_corrected_previous_input

```

> By overriding these defaults, you could, for example, either remove the confirmation
> for correcting slots or make correcting slots impossible. You can override these defaults
> by defining flows, slots, or responses with the respective names shown here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can override these defaults by defining flows, slots, or responses with the
respective names shown here. For instance, you could either remove the confirmation for correcting slots or disable slots correction altogether.
```
